#summary Tutorial for creating personalized fighting character sprites
#labels Phase-Support

= Introduction =

The idea behind the Java Fighting Game engine is to create your own personalized fighting game characters, e.g. you and your friends, and assemble them together into a playable game. Creating your own fighting game sprites may sound a lot of work but the results are often worth it since the creation process is quite straight forward.

= Before you start = 

Before you can start creating your own sprites be sure to have the following things ready.

 * Digital Video Camera
 * Camera Stand
 * Video and Image Processing Tools
  # [http://avidemux.org/ Avidemux Video Processing]
  # [http://www.gimp.org/ The GNU Image Manipulation Program]

= Find proper location =

You need to find a proper location to take videos for your own fighting characters. I guess in theory there aren't any limitations in where you take your videos, but best practice is to take the videos in front of a planar wall. In our case we do take our videos in the basement where we've got enough place for our fighter improvisations.

= Camera position and floor marks =

= Fighting Character states =

After setting up your camera environment you can start creating your own character sprites. Often fighters stick to a predefined fighting style, e.g. Street Fighter 2 or Mortal Kombat etc.

You can use following character states for your inspiration:

 * Stand
 * Block
 * High Punch
 * Low Punch
 * Uppercut
 * High Kick
 * Low Kick
 * High Hit
 * Low Hit

 * Jump
 * Jump Punch
 * Jump Kick
 * Jump Forward

 * Duck
 * Duck Block
 * Duck Punch
 * Duck Kick
 * Duck Hit
 * Sweeper

 * Fall Down
 * Stand Up

 * Walk
 * Victory
 * Roundhouse
 * Fireball

= Extracting images =

= Cutting out sprites = 
